-What is this?

A very simple FAQ to help you know the project more.

-What is Pokemon Patched Crystal?

Pokemon Patched Crystal is a romhack of Pokemon Crystal which doesnt drastically alter the game's
content and gameplay but instead it improves upon it with bugfixes and Quality of Life features that fit
today's standarts, the series setting and theming and personal preference.

-Personal preference?!

Dont be alarmed, this isnt a romhack full of fakemon and Original Characters nor anything is removed.
This is still the Pokemon Crystal you love but with some additions and adjustments.

-So what's in it then?

Here's a full feature list:

The game's original bugs and glitches have been fixed, most notable fixes are all pokeballs working
as intented, item fixes, no Arbitrary Code Execution, no battle glitches/bugs and many more issues
have been sorted.

You can obtain all 251 pokemon without the need to do trades with other people, version exclusives can now
be found in the wild and certain evolution methods have been altered. (More info below)

Time "works differently" now, meaning that the time when the sun rises and sets has been tweaked to
logical ranges so that players can take advantage out of all three parts of the day in the game easier.

TMs are now infinite use just like in later games.

When picking up or receiving TMs as gifts the name of the move will also be shown.

The starter sprites that are being shown before picking one are now in color.

There's a Move Reminder NPC at Move Deleter's home now to teach your pokemon forgotten moves.

Catching pokemon yields EXP to pokemon that took part in the battle like in later games.

Berry and apricorn trees now drop between 1 to 5 berries/apricorns.

Kurt will now immediately make balls so you dont need to wait an entire day for them.

The Lucky Number Show now occurs daily instead of weekly.

The Trainer House battle no longer has a daily limit

You can challenge all Gym Leaders to a rematch as many times as you want after unlocking MT. Silver.
Both Gym Leaders and the Elite Four now have stronger teams for rematches much like the remakes after
unlocking MT. Silver.

The trainer card now includes an extra page for Kanto badges and all 16 badges are now
shown in color.

You can now see the shiny variant of a pokemon in the pokedex by pressing SELECT.

You can now choose one of many unique colors for your Pokedex UI in its SELECT menu.

All 251 pokemon now have uniquely colored sprites in menus and the overworld.
Shiny variants and shiny egg included.

You are able to release EGGs via the PC.

Both the Battle Tower and Buena's Password feature additional, new rewards.

Carrie, the girl that enables Mystery Gift at the Goldenrod Department Store will offer
to Mystery Gift with you once per day. The item range is exactly the same as the real
Mystery Gift along with the ever rare Mirage and Bluesky mail (decorations are excluded at the moment)

Smashing rocks now has a chance to give you certain items, including fossils. (More info below)

Easily change the time by pressing DOWN + B on the title screen.

Weather conditions in battle are now shown if active via an appropriate icon in the move selection window.

Daytime/Nightime status is also shown with an icon in the main battle window.

Ghost type attacks are now taking advantage of Special Attack instead of Attack and Dark type attacks take
advantage of Attack instead of Special Attack.

-Woah hold on there! You said no major changes, why change how types scale?!

Allow me to explain. Before the Physical and Special split of Gen 4, moves were Physical or Special depending
on their type, for example Fire attacks are Special and Normal attacks are Physical. For whatever reason, Ghost
type attacks are Physical, meaning that they take advantage of the Attack stat. This is clearly a disadvantage
for all Ghost types so i took the chance to correct that, and at the same time did the same thing with the Dark
type for the same reason as most Dark Type attacks are physical past Gen 2.
I hope you understand my reasoning on this change.

-You said i can capture all 251 pokemon, what about Celebi and the Kanto legendaries?

Celebi's event has been restored, meaning that it will occur normally once you beat the Elite Four
so you can finally have a legit Celebi.

The Kanto legendaries have been placed onto the overworld much like in later games, Mew included.

-What about fossil pokemon?

By smashing rocks there's a chance you'll get one of three (3) Kanto fossils. You can revive them the same way you did
in Gen 1 at the corresponding NPC which is in the Ruins of Alph Research Center.

-You said altered evolutions, what about that?

Certain pokemon now evolve thanks to the item "Link Cord" which acts like an evolutionary stone much like in Pokemon Arceus.
More info on the new encounters and ways to evolve pokemon can be found in the "Encounters and Evolutions.txt" file.

-Can you Trade/Battle in this?

Yes but also no. Trading works 100% and i've implemented fixes for bugs/mishaps that occur during Link Battles however Link Battles
should be between two (2) Patched Crystal games not one (1) Patched Crystal game and any Gen 2 vanilla game as there will
be desynchronization due to these changes.

-Got the full list of Battle Tower rewards?

MasterBall x1
Revive x5
Max Potion x5
Full Restore x5
Hp Up x5
Protein x5
Iron x5
Carbos x5
Calcium x5
Rare Candy x5 
Full Heal x5
PP Up x5
Dire Hit x5
Guard Spec. x5
Berserk Gene x1
Scope Lens x1
Lucky Punch x1
Light Ball x1
Twisted Spoon x1
Normal Box x1
Gorgeous Box x1

-What else you got in store for us?

Right now, i consider this romhack "complete" The initial goal of this project was to create "my dream version of Crystal" and it
reached that status but new vanilla-friendly features, tweaks or maintenance updates are not off the table.

-Why updates roll in such irregular rate?

Its not on purpose. Life gets in the way and im not a fully fledged programmer, all my work is based on very helpful guides and individuals
and whenever something cool comes up i take the safe approach and try it out internaly until im certain its fit for a release.

-Any way i can help?

You can always report back any bugs, throw your suggestions, etc. You can reach out to me through through a discord server.
https://discord.com/invite/5Xu54kDeJS